- [Instructor] JavaServer Pages,
or JSP,
is a Java EE technology
that allows developers to easily build web pages
with dynamic content.
Most web pages are built using Dynamic Content
because it allows unique experiences for each visit
or visitor to a page.
Here is the home page for another course of mine
on LinkedIn Learning.
Notice that the layout
and themeing of the page is consistent with other courses.
However,
there is content specific to this course.
Such as the course name
and information about what you will learn.
LinkedIn does not create a static HTML page
for every course.
Instead,
static content is templated for generic page elements
such as "Layout"
and then the dynamic content like "Course Information"
is intermixed to create a unique page for each course.
This concept can easily be applied within Java EE using JSP.
(soft clicking sound)
Here is a general look
at how JSP applications are patterned
using today's best practices.
In this pattern,
a browser passes HTTP requests to a servlet.
Which performs its logic
and then stores data into a model.
The servlet then passes the request to the JSP.
Which extracts the data from the model and intermixes it
within a template to generate a dynamic page
for the end user.
The pattern known as Model View Controller,
or MVC for short,
separates the three primary concerns
of building dynamic web pages to prevent code
from becoming unreadable and hard to maintain.
So we've talked about how JSP's are documents
that mix static content
with dynamic content using an MVC architecture.
Let's dive a little bit deeper.
When building a JSP page.. there are two syntax options:
JSP page
or JSP document.
The JSP document syntax.. enforces strict XML syntax.
And it can prevent co-mingling
of controller logic in the view.
The standard syntax is used more frequently.
However it does create the possibility for coupling
between MVC layers.
If you have a well-disciplined team or co-reviewed process,
it shouldn't be a problem to use the JSP page syntax.
Within JSP pages,
we can import tag libraries that define when usable JSP tags
that help us build the page.
Additionally,
a simple expression language is available
that provides a concise syntax
for referencing model objects in the page.
This high-level overview gives you the over-arching concepts
that we'll be working with in JSP.